I would like to begin by announcing some
important developments in our war
against the Chinese virus we'll be
invoking the defense production act just
in case we need it in other words I
think you all know what it is and it can
do a lot of good things if we need it
and we will we will have it completed
signing it in just a little while right
after I'm finished with this conference
I'll be signing it it's prepared to go
so we will be invoking the defense
production Act last week I signed an
emergency declaration under the Stafford
Act which as you know we invoked
previously and which activated FEMA's
National Response Coordination Center
famer now is fully engaged at the
highest levels today FEMA is activated
in every region we are at level 1 level
1 being the highest level which we will
work with and we've been working with
him I've done a lot of work with FEMA
they're incredible it's always been on
hurricanes or tornados they're right now
in Tennessee large group working in
Tennessee have have been incredible that
was tragic event Alabama last year also
a tornado and then obviously the
numerous hurricanes and different
locations that were in some cases very
devastating and in every case FEMA came
through this is a very different kind of
a work for FEMA but they will come
through as they always do we have
tremendous people tremendous talent in
FEMA we're sending upon request the two
hospital ships they're being prepared
right now they're massive ships they're
the big white ships with the Red Cross
on the sides one is called the mercy and
the other is called the comfort and they
are in tip-top shape they soon will be
there getting ready to come up to New
York I spoke with Governor Cuomo about
it he's excited about it
and I also we haven't made the final
determination as to where it's going to
go on the west coast the comfort is
located now in San Diego and it's going
to be will be picking the destination
fairly shortly so those two ships are
being prepared to go and they can be
launched over the next week or so
depending on need earlier this week the
first clinical trial of the vaccine
candidate for the virus began in
Washington State as you probably know
the genetic sequence of the virus was
first published in January but thanks to
the unprecedented partnership between
the FDA NIH and the private sector we've
reached human trials for the vaccine
just eight weeks later that's a record
by many many months it used to take
years to do this and now we did it just
in a very short while that's the fastest
development in history of what we're
doing with regard to the vaccine making
very very big progress today I can
announce further steps to expand testing
capacity we're working with several
groups to determine if the self swab a
much easier process than the current
process that's not very nice to do I can
tell you because I did it but we have a
current process that's a little bit
difficult if you haven't done the the
groups are working on determining if a
self swab by an individual is as
effective as the other the others very
effective very accurate but we're going
to see if we can do a self swab which is
would be a lot more popular I can tell
you that so and that would be
administered also by a health official
but it would be a lot easier to do the
the fact is that the health
professionals would it would free it
would free up a lot let me just say the
self swab is what it is it's a self so
if you do it yourself the other has to
be issued by a
health professional and it's something
that is is quite difficult and we think
it's working out for the self swab and
if it would test positive the people
would go and they would do what they
have to do is but we think that's
probably working out I've asked the FDA
to cut through the red tape and reduce
regulatory barriers we are looking at
some very exciting things and I'm going
to be holding the second news conference
either today we're going to talk about
the FDA some things are happening that
are quite exciting and we're gonna be
doing that either later today or
tomorrow fairly early tomorrow so we'll
see what happens but the FDA my
instructions is I've been working very
very hard on a number of developments
and we'll be discussing them with you
later today or tomorrow and this
afternoon I'll be meeting with nurses on
the front lines of the battle against
the virus they're truly American heroes
they want to get it done they're
incredible people so we're gonna be
meeting with nurses and actually look
forward to that very brave they're
taking a lot of risk and they they have
done an incredible job and they never
complained today I'm also announcing
that the Department of Housing and Urban
development's is providing immediate
relief to renters and homeowners by
suspending all foreclosures and
evictions until the end of April so
we're working very closely with dr. ben
Carson then everybody from HUD every
generation of Americans has been called
to make shared sacrifices for the good
of the nation in World War two young
people in their teenage years
volunteered to fight they wanted to
fight so badly because they loved our
country
workers refused to go home and slept in
factory floors to keep assembly lines
running and you know the numbers of
ships that they built through in World
War two to this day has never nothing
like that has ever been equal they were
doing ships on a literally on a daily
basis nobody's ever seen anything like
it
and to this day nobody's seen anything
like that what they were able to do
during
world war two and now it's our time we
must sacrifice together because we are
all in this together and we'll come
through together it's the invisible
enemy that's always the toughest enemy
the invisible enemy but we're going to
defeat the invisible enemy I think we're
going to do it even faster than we
thought and it will be a complete
victory it'll be a total victory
so we'll have a second conference again
having to do with the FDA and this I
think it's going to be potentially a
very exciting news conference and we
will do it as quickly as we can so
whether it's today or tomorrow and all
with that ask Mike Pence to say a few
words and thank you very much
Thank You mr. president
the White House coronavirus task force
met this morning and now that we have
cases in all 50 states we're continuing
to move out on the president's call to
bring the full resources of the federal
government a full partnership with every
state and territory the full power of
the American economy to support
businesses and families as the president
says to us and every day we'll do
whatever it takes we're all in this
together
yesterday the president met with the
tourism industry executives and also had
an engaging discussion with all the top
companies in our industrial and medical
supply chain the president as you all
are were also announced today that by
mutual consent the northern border to
Canada will be closed to non-essential
travel this does not include essential
travel or the transit of goods but it
was through a mutual discussion that
took place this morning between the
president and Prime Minister Trudeau and
the Department of Homeland Security will
be effectuating at that decision
president spoke with some of the
nation's top business leaders today
again to speak about the supply chain in
the country and for our part we're going
to be conducting a conference call later
today with state and local health
officials to renew
our ongoing commitment of cooperation
and collaboration as the president said
last week in signing the Stafford Act
he stood up the National Response
Coordination Center and today at the
president's direction
FEMA has gone to level one FEMA's
mission is to support disasters that are
locally executed state managed and
federally supportive and tomorrow the
president will be hosting all the
nation's governors from a video
conference at FEMA to ensure that they
have full connection to all of the
activated regions for FEMA going forward
and with regard to testing I'm pleased
to report that we're increasing the
number of tests being performed by the
thousands every day thanks to the
public-private partnership that
President Trump forged with commercial
laboratories around the country our
health experts tell us to remind every
American it's important to remember
people without symptoms should not get
tested we want to make sure that the
supply of testing is there for those
that need it most or are symptomatic or
in the vulnerable population dr. deborah
birx in a moment we'll address the
progress that we're making on testing
the infection rate our recommendations
to every America as well as some
important new findings about the impact
on youth that we're gaining from data
that's coming in from Europe that'll be
important to every every American on the
subject of supplies and the president
has our task force extremely focused as
the president mentioned yesterday
mentioned that he's invoking the defense
production act today secretary Esper in
a few moments will describe the ongoing
efforts that the Department of Defense
is taking to make medical resources
available secretary Robert Wilkie will
announce decisions the VA has made to
expand hospital capacity within their
system also with regard to medical
personnel at the president's Direction
HHS is issuing a regulation today that
will allow all doctors and medical
professionals to practice across state
lines to meet the needs of hospitals
that may
rise in adjoining areas in addition to
that we are again today asking every
American and our medical community
leaders and hospitals to partner with us
in delaying elective procedures across
the country in our health care system to
ensure that medical supplies and medical
capacity go where they're needed most
Seema Verma will describe guidance that
CMS will be issuing on that front
and finally just I want to remind every
American of the president's 15 day
guidance to slow the spread we are
grateful for members of the media and
the general public that are adhering to
these sharing them with neighbors and
friends all of our experts continue to
believe that if every American will do
their part and embrace and put into
practice these principles that we can
significantly limit the reach of the
corona virus in the weeks and months
ahead thank you Miss thank you very much
deducted thank you Thank You mr.
president mr. vice president so you know
we continue to look at data every single
day there are concerning reports coming
out of France and Italy about some young
people getting seriously ill and very
seriously ill in the ICUs
we think part of this may be that people
heeded the early data coming out of
China and coming out of South Korea
without the elderly or those with
pre-existing medical conditions were at
particular risk it may have been that
the Millennial Generation our largest
generation our future generation that
will carry us through for the next
multiple decades there may be
disproportional a number of infections
among that group and so even if it's a
rare occurrence it may be seen more
frequently in that group and be evident
now so we're looking at that information
very carefully we have not seen any
significant mortality in the children
but we are concerned about the early
reports coming out of Italy and France
so again I'm going to call on that
Jenner
that's part of that group that brought
us innovation particularly throughout
all of their ability to look around
corners and skip through games and I
always went level by level I didn't
realize that you could go from level
three to level seven that's what they've
taught us they look for things that we
don't see we need them to be healthy so
again not all in calling on you to
adhere what's in the against but to
really ensure that each and every one of
you are protecting each other and so we
cannot have these large gatherings that
continue to occur throughout the country
for people who are off work to then be
socializing in large groups and
spreading the virus you have the
potential then to spread it to someone
who does have a condition that none of
us knew about and caused them to have a
disastrous outcome finally on the
testing piece and what we're learning I
know you know last week and bringing the
private sector I think what has been
exciting to me over the last two and a
half weeks is to see this administration
harness the full capacity of the private
sector understanding that a lot of our
solutions that we need to confront this
virus a lot rely on the private sector
bringing the private sector commercial
labs was critical into this process we
are now beginning to see that they have
spread out in a prioritized way because
we asked them to prioritize the region's
that were mostly affected and so you
still may have difficulty getting tests
in areas that do not have significant
cases we've had them prioritized the
regions where we need diagnosis and
their diagnostic percent remember I told
you South Korea was under 4% so 96% of
people were negative the last report
we've seen from the laboratories have
about a 7 plus percent positivity rate
still 93 plus percent or 92 percent are
negative but I think that's encouraging
to me personally that we're prioritizing
appropriately to those areas that have
the greatest need today and yesterday
thermo Fisher pushed out most of their
laboratory testing capacity and that
will dramatically increase the at
platform and the ability to run a
test in addition to rosh so i appreciate
everybody's attention to these numbers
i'm i'm excited that we've prioritized
where the need was the greatest but
again please follow the guidance and
please make sure in every report that
you're putting out that you're talking
about the presidential guidance to
actually stop the spread of this virus
thank you
so good afternoon everyone and i want to
provide an update on DoD's coronavirus
up efforts as we continue to focus on
our three priorities that's first of all
protecting our personnel and their
families second safeguarding our
national security mission capabilities
and third of course supporting the
administration's whole-of-government
approach first of all though I do want
to assure the American people that the
United States military remains ready and
capable of defending the country and our
interests abroad now with that the
department is leaning forward in our
response to kovat 19 we have issued
international and domestic travel
restrictions to all DoD personnel and
families that should dramatically reduce
potential exposure to the virus those
have been in place for some time now as
I announced yesterday the Department of
fence will make available up to five
million n95 respirator masks and other
personal protective equipment from our
own strategic reserves to the Department
of Health and Human Services for
distribution the first 1 million masks
will be available immediately we're also
prepared to distribute to HHS up to
2,000 operational deployables
ventilators for use as needed
yesterday I was at Fort Detrick Maryland
which is probably the military's premier
research institute where I got updated
on the incredible work our people are
doing as part of the interagency team to
work on vaccines and therapeutics they
are making great progress there we also
have announced that we've certified our
16th lab or will soon certified our 16th
lab to help with processing tests from
across the country additionally I have
directed as the president mentioned that
the hospital ships mercy and comfort be
prepared to deploy to increase the
nation's medical capacity and we have
also alerted a variety of filled and
expeditionary hospitals to be prepared
to
as well as needed based on direction
from the commander-in-chief today a
leadership from the Army Corps of
Engineers is in New York meeting with
Governor Cuomo and his team
I spoke with Governor Cuomo yesterday
and other governors I will be speaking
to more in the coming days to make sure
that they know what DoD can provide
through our system to and to address
their needs in my conversations with
governor's and members of Congress about
DoD's resources I've made it clear that
we will continue to support the
administration's comprehensive efforts
and the country every step of the way
while ensuring our nation's security
remains the top priority I want to
conclude by thanking again all of our
service members and their families who
have been affected by this outbreak they
are all great heroes we are continue to
support them throughout this we are all
in this together thank you all very much
thank you very much so yesterday the
president made a very important
announcement about telehealth and this
is allowing our 62 million seniors to be
able to get some medical services from
the safety of their home reducing their
risk and without any co-pays but we're
also making sure that the health care
system is prepared and that those on the
front lines have the support that they
need the reality is the stakes are high
and we need to preserve personal
protective equipment for those that are
on the frontlines of this fight and to
that end we have put out guidelines over
the last two weeks to expand the types
of mass that can be used in routine care
and saving those and 95s for the most
risky situations conserving personal
protective equipment is also essential
to combat the virus
so today CMS will announce detailed
recommendations to further promote this
needed conservation specifically by
limiting non-essential elective medical
and surgical procedures including dental
procedures we believe that these
recommendations will help surgeons
patients and hospitals prioritize what
is essential while leading the ultimate
decision in the hands of state and local
health officials and those clinicians
who have direct responsibility to their
patients and we urge providers and
clinicians and patients to seriously
consider these recommendations they will
not only preserve equipment but
also allows doctors and nurses to help
those that are on the front lines and it
will protect patients from unnecessary
exposure to the virus we fully
appreciate that this is going to have a
major impact on the healthcare system
but the shared sacrifice is essential to
help those that are on the front lines
and I want to thank the medical
societies such as the American College
of Surgeons and the American Dental
Association that took a proactive
approach and already posted these
recommendations and we've also talked to
the American Medical Association and
they have fully indicated their support
for this recommendation we now invite
the entire healthcare community to join
us in this effort thank you Thank You
mr. president my instructions from the
president were very clear I was to do
everything imaginable as aggressively as
possible to protect the nine and a half
million veterans who are part of the
Department of Veterans Affairs
last month we established 19 emergency
operations centers across the country we
began to limit the number of visitors
who entered our facilities we began I
think the first we were the first system
to begin triaging across the country and
our 170 hospitals the entrance of anyone
into our facility without being
questioned or tested we expanded those
restrictions to those you know 135
community living centers which which
have about 7800 veterans who are in
acute and acute conditions to make sure
that they were protected we also took
the next step and made sure that we
limited the dental surgeries that we
were provided we've cut back by
one-third the number of routine
appointments we have had and we have
canceled elective surgeries these were
all part the president's directed to be
as aggressive in a public health sense
as we could be and I think we have set
the pace for the entire country I will
say we've often said that we work the
most noble mission in the federal
government
our veterans have been in the toughest
spots in the world they have been put in
conditional conditions that are
unimaginable to most Americans and they
have responded they've responded clearly
they have responded with passion and
also the 400,000 members of our
department who are out there on the
front lines the last thing I will say is
that you have heard a lot about the
fourth mission that VA has our first
three missions are health care benefits
and memorial affairs our fourth mission
is to support the federal government in
times of natural disasters and pandemics
we are the the buttress force in case
that FEMA or HHS calls upon us to deploy
medical professionals across the country
to meet crises but we plan for that
every day we are gaming out emergency
preparedness scenarios and we stand
ready when the president needs us to
expand our mission thank you your
Treasury secretary was on Capitol Hill
talking about the potential for what
could come and he said that unemployment
could skyrocket to 20 percent are we
looking at that that could rival the
Great Depression are we looking at
potentially no I don't agree that's a
absolute total worst-case scenario but
no we don't look at that at all we're
nowhere near it okay why do you keep
calling this the Chinese virus there are
reports of dozens of incidents of bias
against Chinese Americans in this
country your own a secretary a czar and
says he does not use this term because
ethnicity does not cause the virus why
do you keep using this letter comes
injury exists that's not racist at all
no let it open it comes from China
that's why comes from China I want to be
accurate there please John
it's behind you are you I have a great I
have great love for all of the people
from our country but as you know China
tried to say at one point maybe this
stuff now
that it was caused by American soldiers
that can't happen it's not gonna happen
not as long as I'm president
it comes from China john cleese two
questions if I could mr. president first
of all in the defense procurement Act
you're invoking it today senator sure
you said on the floor a short time ago
that it urgently needs to be put into
action
to produce medical supplies particularly
ventilators do you have some targets
that you would like to see immediately
spool we do have we have tremendous
numbers of ventilators but there's never
been an instance like this where no
matter what you have it's not enough
that would be the case and we will be
it's it's being signed it's essentially
drawn and I'm going to sign it in just a
little while if we need to use it we'll
be using it at full speed ahead it's
urgent Lee needed to be do you have some
time wasn't to know whether or not
urgent but we will yeah we do have
targets we have targets for certain
pieces of equipment we have targets for
masks you know the masks and numbers of
Basques are incredible we've ordered
millions of them but we need millions
more this a thing like this has never
been requested and it's never we've
never had even think in terms of these
numbers but we need millions of masks
and all of that will be order we need
respirators we need ventilators is a big
thing because it's a complex piece of
equipment so we have a lot of
ventilators but we're gonna be ordering
more and second question what size will
the checks be that will be sent out to
to be determined we're working with the
Senate right now we're working with
everybody on Capitol Hill there's been
tremendous there really has been I mean
with with some exceptions obviously
because it's always the way it is but
there has been they've been getting
along very well Republicans and
Democrats it's a nice thing very
bipartisan so forth what we're gonna see
I don't want to get into that right now
John we are looking at different numbers
we're looking at timing that would be
different splitting the time splitting
the payments we're looking at a lot of
different
hasn't been determined yet but it will
shortly be determined and people want to
go big as opposed everybody seems to
want to go big and they want to get to
the recovery the big day is the big
thing we can do is get rid of this
horrible I call it the unseen the unseen
enemy you call it you is if that was in
different terms for it but what it snuck
up on us and it's it did a hundred and
twenty-eight countries I think it's in
something like that very close to that
think of that so it spreads violently
it's a very contagious
very very contagious virus American to
be out of wartime footing in terms of
fighting this virus I do I actually do
I'm looking at it that way because you
know if if it got out of control the big
thing we did was a very early stoppage
of people coming in who could be very
very heavily infected and that was a it
was a very good move and it was very
early very very early when most people
including a lot of professionals they
didn't want us to do it that really
saved a lot of lives and yeah I look at
it I view it as a in a sense of wartime
president I mean that's what we're
fighting I mean it's it's a it's a very
tough situation you you have to do
things you have to you have to close
parts of an economy that six weeks ago
were were the best they've ever been we
had the best economy we've ever had and
then one day you have to close it down
in order to defeat this enemy and but
we're doing it and we're doing it well
and I'll tell you the American people
have been incredible for the most part
they've been really incredible
yeah please Caitlin
but I'll start with you you just said
there are a tremendous number of
ventilators that we have but for weeks
hospitals have been warning about a
critical shortage if they say we are not
prepared for so why did it take so long
well you know hospitals are supposed to
have ventilators too and when we have
thousands of ventilators it sounds like
a lot but this is a very unforeseen
thing nobody ever thought of these
numbers nobody ever saw numbers like
this even with regard to testing
normally we wouldn't be doing testing
and they decided to do it very very hard
to ramp up now we're getting highly
sophisticated tests and it's going very
well but nobody's ever heard of testing
in the kind of quantities that you're
talking about well it depends it depends
on how it goes worst case absolutely the
best case not not at all so we're gonna
have to see where it goes but we are
ordering thousands and thousands of
ventilators and they're complex you know
these are complex machines and but we're
ordering up does anybody have a
microwave you do how many do we have we
have a specific number of ventilators in
the stockpile it's in excess of of
10,000 and you just heard the
announcement from the Department of
Defense they'll be adding several more
thousand to that but president even this
morning and yesterday afternoon speaking
with the the largest companies in the
supply chain in this country we're
hearing a tremendous spirit among
industry leaders who are ready to step
in and add to that volume but the
stockpiles don't count all of the
ventilators that exist today in the
marketplace and in health care
facilities around the country but the
president's given us a a director to
make sure that our stockpile but just as
importantly working with industry
leaders that we're securing the increase
in ventilators the increase in masks
gloves iron protective care garments
that are all necessary to lean forward
and we're confident we'll be able to
accomplish that
with the incredible cooperation of the
supply chain that exists in America
today we can give you the exact name but
we'll get the key but we're ordering
we're ordering a lot more one second one
second k then we'll do it in a second
thank you first one on the Canadian
border what was the tipping point Friday
we talked about it that Monday you said
no one who were not considering no I
said not yet I spoke with the Prime
Minister Trudeau very good relationship
obviously between us and our two
countries and no tipping point it's just
that we want to we want to isolate from
the standpoint we don't want people
coming into contact because that's the
way we're gonna win this war that is so
important and we both thought it was
sudden now it's not affecting trade
it's non-essential it's non-essential
crossings it won't affect trade at all
and it was just something we thought
would be good for both countries yes
please how can you be sure the trade and
everything that's being shipped from one
side they're doing it in a very careful
manner you can only be vigilant and very
professional but we're not it's not
pertaining at this moment to trade
between the two countries
yeah please the trillion dollar economic
stimulus package could look something
like 50 billion for the airlines 150
billion dollars in loan guarantees the
critical sectors of the economy 250
billion dollar payment on April 6th
directly to individuals another 250
billion dollar payments on May 18 again
directly to individuals and ends as well
300 billion dollars for small business
loan guarantees is that in the general
sense what could be it could be and
we're also playing with a lot of numbers
a lot of very big numbers and a lot of
very small numbers frankly we want to
take care of we have to help everybody
it was nobody's fault this happened I
mean some people could say it was
somebody's fault actually but it was
nobody's fault and certainly none of
these companies that all of a sudden had
no passengers and planes and had no
passengers on cruise ships and all of
the things that have happened but I will
say that they can't be blamed for this
and we want to keep those companies
vibrant because it's there's going to be
a comeback very very quickly as soon as
this is solved and it will be solved we
will win and there will be a comeback
and it'll take place very quickly
there's give or take 330 million
Americans or so you just do the math on
that that's about 750 dollars a person a
family of four that would be about three
thousand dollars on average again rough
math which is that where this is no I
don't want to say that because it's a
moving these are all every number that
you mentioned yes we've talked about
those numbers we're also moving those
numbers in both directions so we'll let
you know it'll be it's it's moving along
fast again there's a great bipartisan
effort going on that that I haven't
really seen before to this extent it's
down the line and they're looking at it
very seriously and I think would be a
great thing because the others to use a
nice word it's very inconvenient it's
very tough Fraser you tweeted this
morning about your approval rating
amongst Republicans you have said that
you give yourself a ten in terms of
handling this crisis how do you reassure
Americans at home who don't trust you to
handle a crisis of this magnitude well I
think we're doing a really good job we
started off with a termination of the
border the people coming in from China
where this all started
that meant I took it very seriously and
when I use the word calm calm doesn't
mean that I'm not taking it seriously
calm means and we should be calm we
should be extremely calm but yeah ninety
five percent within the Republican Party
and over fifty percent and I also have
we have very great approval numbers I
mean people like the job that we're
doing and when you can't compare this to
other epidemics or if you want to use a
different term you can but within this
country and you look at what's happened
over the years this is being handled
very very professionally they're the
greatest professionals in the world
we're doing a good job nobody's ever
been swamped like this nothing's been so
contagious the level of contagion has
been incredible actually nobody's seen
anything quite like this yeah Peter go
ahead federal officials have shipped
millions of tests as you and your
colleagues have said why is the federal
government sets of only 15 59 thousand
tests been processed to this point we
just heard from the Atlanta public
health director saying that they have
fewer than 50 test kits for more than
900,000 citizens where Lois
so that's a very critical question and
thank you for asking it so the test kits
that we put out last week through the
approval the rapid movement of that
meeting that President Trump called less
than two weeks ago that has resulted in
bringing our private sector to the table
because the tests in the platform that
was out there could only run between 4
and 12 tests per platform per day we've
now moved into platforms that can run
basically tens of thousands of tests per
day so yeah the reason I'm grateful for
your question because it allows me to
point out that a course then there was
backlog there were individuals who had
been tested who hadn't had their
specimen run because of the slow
throughput it's now in a high-speed
platform so we will see the number of
people diagnosed dramatically increase
over the next four to five days I know
some of you will use that to raise an
alarm that we are worse than Italy
because of our slope of our curve to
every American out there it will be five
to six days worth of tests being run in
24 to 48 hours
so our curves will not be stable until
sometime next week the reason I talked
about thermo Fisher yesterday is because
their platform is in two thousand
laboratories they're the ones that are
putting out the million tests this week
that will solve the issue that Atlanta
others have brought up I wanted to be
clear we prioritize the areas we do
county-by-county analyses based on those
analyses on what counties had more than
50 cases we prioritize the test kits we
put out the 400,000 and that's why we're
seeing a 7 percent plus positivity rate
we'll be able to expand that platform
and reprioritize based on the
accessibility of the other kids
perhaps I could follow up our non
symptomatic professional athletes
getting tests while others are waiting
in line and can't get them to the
well-connected go to the front of the
line well that kid have to ask them that
question I mean they I've read no I
wouldn't say so but perhaps that's been
the story of life that does happen on
occasion and I've noticed where some
people have been tested fairly quickly
look we inherited a very excuse me
Father excuse me we inherited a very
obsolete system this was a system that
was out-of-date obsolete or it was a
system that was never meant to take care
of the kind of quantity the number of
people that we're talking about millions
and millions of people if you go back in
years past like even recently with the
flu nobody had tests before they didn't
test the entire nation to see whether or
not they had flu they got the flu they
got better hopefully they got better
that was it now all of a sudden they do
this very complex testing what we've
done is we broke it down we've broken up
the system but it was obsolete and or
you could say it was also a system that
just wasn't meant to handle the kind of
volley volume that you're talking about
we've rebuilt it into a system that for
the future will be a very good system if
you want to go this route but this was
never done before and I would imagine it
will be done in the future but we built
it into a very good system by using
private companies the great private
companies and I have to say Roush's been
doing a very good job they of doing a
lot of work a very good job but this was
an obsolete system this was not a system
that was meant to do anything like this
or even near this John
a couple of days a major trade Coalition
is calling on you to suspend tariffs
with other countries as part of the
response to the coronavirus heads that
grew those countries do probably know
it's a drug check it's an american free
trade I know I'm sure a free trade look
china is paying us billions and billions
of dollars in tariffs and there's no
reason to do that they haven't even
spoken to me about that China hasn't
asked me to do that but we're getting
billions of dollars here from tariffs
from China and I can't imagine Americans
asking for that but it could be the
China will ask for a suspension or
something see what happens
China's having a very rough time they
have their worst year in 76 years as I
understand it they had a very very tough
time and then on top of it this happened
with the virus but no we're taking in
billions of dollars a year in tariffs
and this was caused by something totally
unrelated to tariffs asylum seekers and
people who crossed the southern border
illegally are you planning to invoke 42
USC 265 which would allow you to
prohibit entry of certain people inches
yes probably today well I think
essential is medical we have military
working together we have industry
working together and again it's not
affecting trade so things like that but
just leisurely let's go to a restaurant
that have dinner which a lot of people
do they come both ways they go in both
directions that kind of thing we we have
ended on a temporary basis yeah please
go ahead
not close that no we're not going to
close it but we are invoking a certain
provision that will allow us great
latitude as to what we do
so to clarify something because just a
week ago
um you all were standing here telling us
that unless you had sustained contact
with somebody who is symptomatic for
kppen 19 you really didn't need to work
well the president the vice president
that if they shook hands with somebody
who had this if they took a photograph
with with somebody who had this he
didn't really need to worry and yet
several days later we're in a situation
where people are being told don't leave
your houses there are curfew saying you
cannot walk alone at night after a
certain time can you walk us through
what seemed like a very dramatic swaying
a very dramatic disconnect from what we
were hearing before what we right now so
two things we look at data all the time
and I know you're looking at the China
and South Korea data and when you look
at China and South Korea data and you
look what China and South Korea did you
can see that their curves are not only
blunted outside of Wuhan so the Chinese
areas outside of Wuhan blunted curve and
South Korea blunted curve if you look at
their curve today they're already on the
far end of their epidemic curve of
course none of those countries are fully
back to work and so that's what we worry
about too secondly there was a series of
scientific articles published and I know
you've seen them too about surface
contamination I think none of us really
understood the level of surface piece so
we're still working out how much is it
by human human transmission and how much
is if I surface this is why those
fundamental guidelines were put out that
says don't expose yourself to surfaces
outside the home basically what those
guidelines are is don't expose yourself
to excess number of persons who could be
asymptomatic and infected and then the
person-to-person contact and don't
expose yourself to surfaces that could
have had the virus on it for which on
hard surfaces I know we had the
cardboard issue about shipping hard
surfaces not shown in fabric as much or
in cardboard but hard surface
transmission these are issues that we
haven't had to deal with before with a
level of respiratory infections and
that's why we have this concern and
that's why president put out the
guidelines and so it's to cover both of
those pieces that's
all new science all new models I think
many of you have the Imperial study
available and looked at the impact of
those that's the first time those have
been modeled as a comprehensive approach
to mitigating an epidemic patients at
risk now I haven't seen the article we
will we are making a lot of progress
therapeutically I will say that and but
I have not seen that article now we've
shut down non-essential travel to Canada
are you considering shutting down all
travel to brunt the spread of the virus
and we've heard from industries like the
airline's who are seeking relief what
other industries or what how exactly is
your administration I'm going to
determine which industries and
businesses well there are certain
industries that people know and the
airlines would be number one if you look
at what's going on they go from having
the best year they've ever had to having
no passengers because of what we've had
to do in order to win this war it's a
war and so you know basically you know
what many of the industries are what we
want to do is we want to make sure they
all stay together so that after the war
is won we can immediately go right back
up to where we were and even beyond I
think we're going to go beyond where we
were a lot of people are saying that by
the way we're poised to do that but we
have to win the workforce yeah please go
ahead proposed 150 billion dollars today
for those industries but their proposal
doesn't detail which industries we get
that money and how much so aside from
the airlines which you just mentioned
what about the cruise industry the
hotels how much of that money do you see
them use we're talking about all of it
haven't detailed it yet we have detailed
it to senators and to members of the
House we have been talking about it and
we're coming up with numbers haven't
gotten there yet but certainly hotel
industry the cruise ship industry the
airlines those are all
prime candidates absolutely reporter sir
when you say to Detroit then were there
reporter when you say temporary which is
what you said in your tweet did that
mean 30 days I would say 30 days and
hopefully at the end of 30 days we'll be
in great shape Millennials and others
perhaps not taking some of these
warnings as seriously as you would like
some of those people also seem to be
your supporters and conservatives who
may be quoting some of what you said at
the beginning of this comparing it to
the flu
what is your message to them to really
follow what you've been saying so far
and are you concerned that they're still
listening maybe to some of your earlier
comments rather than your more recent
ones well I think my earlier comments to
become I mean I do want people to become
because we're gonna win this and we're
gonna win it it's just a question of
time and I wanted to go quickly so based
on the fact that I wanted to go quickly
I hope they just listen to what we've
been saying over the last period of time
we don't want them gathering and I see
they do gather including on beaches and
including in restaurants young people
they don't realize they're feeling
invincible I don't know if you felt
invincible when you were very young but
they were feeling totally invincible or
are feeling that way but they don't
realize that they can be carrying lots
of bad things home to a grandmother and
grandfather and even their parents so we
want them to heed the advice we mean the
advice said I think it's getting through
I do believe it's getting through Jim I
think they're watching a lot of these
people these young people the advice he
did best I just said yeah thank you
thank you peanut
[Music]
say Davis rather and talking about China
you've been very clear about who you
think it's a blame or where the origins
are going for the viruses nothing no no
I don't think I know who where it came
from
I don't know if you'd say china's to
blame certainly we didn't get an early
run on it it would have been helpful if
we knew about it earlier
but it comes from China and it's not a
question about that nobody's questioning
that saying that they should be punished
in so many words for inflicting this on
the American people do you feel that way
about well I have a lot of respect for
Tom cotton and I know exactly what he's
been saying and there were those people
that say that so we'll see what happens
thank you so nice takes a long time it's
your turn
thank you sir we've seen the Chinese
government kick out reporters from The
Wall Street Journal the New York Times
The Washington Post what is your message
to the Chinese when it comes to
transparency and a moment we still have
reporters asking you questions here at
the White House yeah I'm not happy to
see it I don't you know I have my own
disputes with all three of those media
groups I think you know that very well
but I don't like seeing that at all I'm
not happy about that at all yes please
you agree with it do you believe that
China is inflicting this upon our
country no I don't believe they're
inflicting I think they could have given
us a lot earlier notice absolutely
yeah your your credibility ratings are
very low there was a recent NPR Oh who
you were asking that question I'm asking
because I see that they're very high you
know if you look I'm 95% of the
Republican Party we just had a poll that
was done by a very reputable group where
I'm beating sleepy Joe Biden by a lot in
Florida at the state of Florida and in
other states you know so I don't really
know who you're talking about
hi Jennifer go ahead please explain to
them what's coming what was their budget
and they explained to me where they're
coming from I mean they went from as I
said full planes packed the best year
they've ever had by far to bomb one day
empty because of what we have to do to
get rid of to win this war or we would
have a level of death like people
haven't seen before so they've been
fantastic I mean they've been great but
you know they went from being extremely
happy to being people that are running
companies that are gonna need some help
and we'll help them Jennifer would you
be willing to give us an update on how
that's going we've been getting some
reports that counties have been having
difficulty getting what's going on mean
there's a lot of influx to those loans
as you could imagine a lot of people are
looking at it but we're gonna be
increasing funding a lot and they're
very well prepared to do what they have
to do and the SBA is doing a fantastic
job she is doing a really good job the
administrator Joe if I could dr. Burton
researchers have had some luck with
hydroxy for
in shortening the duration of disease is
that something that might be the arsenal
of therapeutics here in the United
States
I think we're exploring every one of
those issues on the president asked for
a critical briefing on that today he
opened with that it is more than that
single drug there are other drugs that
individuals are looking at just to go
back to what we have talked about many
times there is things that look really
good in cell culture against the virus
that may look good in small animals and
then don't have an impact in humans and
so those are the pieces that we're
looking at very carefully of course
there's always antidotal reports and
we're trying to figure out how many Ana
Dodos reports equal real scientific
breakthroughs are you confident of the
seasonality of koalas all we can do is
look at the past to inform the future we
know what's ours looked like we also
know and I just want to put this out I
know you can get it online look at the
curve in China and look at the curve in
South Korea those curves were
accomplished and still the winter season
and so we're trying to understand what
those relationships are we're very
interested in the curves in Italy
because of their different approach and
we're following every single country's
curves and so all we can do is look at
prior coronavirus and prior respiratory
infection RNA viruses these are RNA
viruses when you look at flu in the
northern hemisphere when you look at
parainfluenza and some of the other cold
viruses and if you look at SARS that's
the way the peak normally occurs but
that is a November to April we all
started later and so you're asking me to
predict based on a later start and
that's what we're trying to really look
at China and South Korea to really
inform them
the question for Secretariat will keep
you don't mind or you can answer if
you'd like how many veterans of those
didn't need to be tested it have been
tested those that have needed to be
tested we believe we've caught most of
them right now we have 44 veterans who
have tested positive sadly one has
passed in Portland we are working with
state labs and private companies to make
sure that testing is available because
the president had us out aggressively
early we have we have been in a better
place than most healthcare systems in
the country I cannot predict this dr.
Burke said when the next surge will be
if it will be but one of the things that
we do at VA is that we prepare for
national emergencies be the national
disasters or epidemics we started
preparing for this we started
stockpiling equipment our equipment is
stable and I think that's in large part
because the instructions the president
we've tested several hundred I can't
give you the written yeah we've tested
several hundred yes we've tested several
I don't know exactly I do know that 44
veterans have the virus
most of those are quarantined at home
[Music]
dr. burns quickly I'm trying to
understand what we it's about the
mortality rate
yesterday we underlined the fact that we
had reached a hundred deaths and this
morning we wake up and were a hundred
ten and within 12 hours we climbed by 10
percent is it something we have to
expect from now on a 10 percent increase
every 12 hours so very early on in each
one of these cases if you look at all of
the countries to date the mortality is
higher at the beginning because you're
diagnosing this
sickest the ones who came in quite ill
and I just want to remind the American
public that's still the majority the
risk for serious illness and the
majority of Americans are low but that
doesn't mean that you can't transmit it
to one of those higher risk groups and
that's why we're asking for all
Americans to take responsibility you're
seeing mortality or deaths today from
infections that occurred two to three
weeks ago in general the other thing
that you're seeing is the dramatic and
very difficult impact of this virus in
nursing homes and that's why very early
on the President and Vice President had
us come out and CMS put those very
strict rules in place and everybody
thought we were being too strict and
keeping loved ones away from their
family at nursing homes if we're going
to solve this with a lower death rate we
have to protect the elderly because of
their percent is much higher in
mortality than any other age group that
the federal government has a plan that
shows this coronavirus outbreak might
last as much as long as 18 months are
you seeing those numbers there are some
at least one White House official will
use the term become flu referring to the
fact that this virus started in China is
that acceptable is it wrong are you
worried that that having this virus be
it being talked about as but would you
can use the facts say to try them again
the a person at the White House you used
it to crystalline flu my question is
that's wrong come flu and do you think
using the term Chinese virus Becket's
Asian Americans no no I think they
probably would agree with it 100% it
comes from China there's nothing not to
agree okay how about last question
switching gears to a larger question
here we've seen that before the pandemic
there were a lot of Americans that were
already alienated we saw a deaths of
despair increasing through suicide and
other things now is these individuals a
lot of times in rural parts of the
country are self isolating what is your
message to those individuals and what do
you hope that individuals communities
and churches will be able to return my
messages to all Americans but to those
Americans who are going through a lot we
love them we're with them and we will
not let them down thank you all very
much